Let's talk about something that matters to everyone.
Money.
There's a direct financial connection between your communication skills and your income.
Let's look at exactly how this works.
Here's a real scenario that any experienced technician should understand.
A customer's vehicle needs $3,500 in break and suspension work.
They're hesitant.
They're thinking about getting a second opinion at an independent shop.
What happens next depends entirely on communication.
Option A. You don't take time to explain your findings.
The customer doesn't understand why this work is necessary or why it costs what it does.
They decline and leave to get that second opinion.
Result?
Perhaps zero flagable hours for you.
Zero revenue for the dealership.
Option B. You invest five minutes.
You show them the worn parts.
You explain the safety and performance consequences.
Alongside the service advisor, you address their cost concerns professionally using your expertise.
The customer understands.
They approve the work.
Result?
Eight hours of flagable work.
Let's do the math.
Time invested five minutes.
Billable hours gained eight hours.
Your communication skills directly affected your income.
But it goes beyond this one job.
That satisfied customer returns for future service.
They become a loyal client with significant lifetime value.
They refer other Porsche owners.
And dealership success means your job security and opportunities for advancement.
Here's what technicians sometimes think.
I don't get paid to talk to customers.
I get paid to turn wrenches.
But that's backwards.
Better communication isn't time away from profitable work.
It's an investment in more profitable work.
Five minutes of communication can create eight hours of billable work.
The math works strongly in your favor.